README.md, before:

# Contents

- Modulrized falke config
- Main Channel stable
- Extra unstable channel
- Specific version of `bind` and `samba`
- Semi automatic installation on `Legacy` and `EFI`
- Useful commands
- Home-manager
- Working `Godot` and `VSCode` with `C#`
- Working properly external Ultrawide screen and laptop screen at the same time `TufNix` on `Nvidia` GPU
- Selfhosted web server using `ngnix` and `strapi`
- Useful aliases in bash

# Links

- [MyNixOS Options](https://mynixos.com)
- [NixOS Packages](https://search.nixos.org/packages)
- [NixOS historical packages](https://www.nixhub.io/)

# Commands

- `nix flake update` -> cd to .dotfiles and run from there, updates flake.lock file with wihtin directory containing it, updates just flake.lock not whole system
- `nix-shell -p <packagename>` -> enable package for this shell only
- `sudo nixos-rebuild test` -> test build
- `sudo nixos-rebuild switch` -> rebuild distro and switch to it
- `sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake <path to flake>#<flakename>` -> rebuil and switch to build using flake file and flakename
- `echo "<password>" | sudo tee <filename>` -> save password in plain text for pgadmin
- `sudo chmod 600 <filename>` -> make password only readable for root
- `nix-shell -p picutils && lspci` -> get pcis of devices
- `ls -ltrha /run/current-system/sw/bin | grep "<execname>"` -> find name of the package to use in module
- `ssh-keygen -R <ip or hostname>` -> remove remembered server of ip or hostname
- `df -h` -> check disk free space
- `top` or `htop` -> get system load
- `du -sh /nix/store` -> check how much space is used by nix store
- `sudo nix-collect-garbage -d` -> remove unused packages, run after removing generations for nix and home-manager
- `sudo nix-env --list-generations --profile /nix/var/nix/profiles/system` -> show all system generations
- `sudo nix-env --delete-generations <gen_number> --profile /nix/var/nix/profiles/system` -> delete specific generation
- `journalctl -u strapi.service --since today` -> get lastest logs of strapi.service since today
- `ps aux | grep sshd` -> get all ssh sessions, first number after user is PID
- `nix flake metadata` -> get matadata about inputs, need to run in directory with flake
- `home-manager switch --flake ~/.dotfiles` -> username and machine pulled from current machine and user who is running, no need to specify as long as flake is using "username@hostname"
- Temporary proxy for current shell/session
- `home-manager generations` -> get home-manager generations
- `home-manager expire-generations "-1 day"` -> remove all generations older than
- `tail <path> -f` -> see in real time file chaingn, useful for looking at logs

```nix
# Need both for shell and daemon to pickup proxy
export http_proxy="http://your.proxy:3128"
export https_proxy="$http_proxy"
export all_proxy="$http_proxy"
export no_proxy="localhost,127.0.0.1"
sudo systemctl set-environment http_proxy="http://proxy:3128" https_proxy="http://proxy:3128"
sudo systemctl restart nix-daemon
```

# sops-nix

- Run below on your machine or any other machine and copy string from output
  `nix run nixpkgs#ssh-to-age -- < ~/.dotfiles/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub`

```yaml
# .sops.yaml
# Placed at ~/.dotfiles/

keys:
  # Your personal key for managing secrets
  - &personal_key age1... # <-- Paste your personal key here
  # The host's key, which allows the server to decrypt secrets
  - &server_host age1... # <-- Paste the server host key here

creation_rules:
  # This rule applies to any file named `secrets.yaml`
  # inside the `hosts/server` directory.
  - path_regex: hosts/server/secrets\.yaml$
    key_groups:
      - age:
          - *personal_key
          - *server_host
```

- `Floccus need hashed password` - generate hashed password eg. `htpasswd -n -B floccus_user` and copy it
- cd to `~/.dotfiles` and run for eg. `nix run nixpkgs#sops -- hosts/NetworkBox/secrets.yaml`. Make sure that the host you are running it on has `.sops.yaml`

# shorten this one

- to manage secrets later also need to be in `~/.dotfiles` and run `nix-shell -p sops ssh-to-age --run 'SOPS_AGE_KEY=$(ssh-to-age -private-key -i ~/.dotfiles/.ssh/id_ed25519 | grep '\''AGE-SECRET-KEY'\'') sops hosts/NetworkBox/secrets.yaml'`
- remember to commit after modyfing secrets

```yaml
# secrets.yaml (in your editor)
nginx_webdav_users: |
  floccus_user:your-hashed-password-here # <-- Paste the output from `htpasswd` here
```

## !!! Remember to commit `secrets.yaml` to the repo otherwise use of it would fail

# One line installer:

- For `Legacy` in `configuration.nix`

```nix
  # Disable EFI bootloader and use GRUB for Legacy BIOS
  boot.loader.grub.enable = true;
  boot.loader.grub.device = "/dev/sda"; # or the appropriate disk, replace /dev/sda with your disk name

  # Set boot partition label for GRUB to use
  boot.loader.grub.useOSProber = true;
```

- For `EFI` in `configuration.nix`

```nix
  # Default settings for EFI
  boot.loader.systemd-boot.enable = true;
  boot.loader.efi.canTouchEfiVariables = true;
  fileSystems."/boot" = {
    fsType = "vfat";
  };
```

- When rebuilding rename/remove `hardware-configuration.nix` and `id_ed25519.pub`
- In `flake.nix` make sure to add machine in `nixosConfigurations` and user on the machine in `homeConfigurations`
- `PROXY` - add proxy settings in `configuration.nix` and `home.nix` otherwise no internet access after install and browser will not get internet and some other apps
- disk check using `lsblk` and hostname needs to match name in hosts folder and confifuration.nix needs to be present in that folder
- CASE SENSITIVE COMMAND
- `curl -sSL https://github.com/keranod/.dotfiles/raw/main/semiAutoInstall.sh <optional -x proxy_url:port> | sudo bash -s /dev/<disk name> <hostname> <username> <email> <optional proxy:port>`
- after install run on each user that has home-manager specific config on that user profile `home-manager switch --flake ~/.dotfiles`
- `PROXY` - after install and home manager done, change git origin for `~/.dotfiles` to use `https` instead `ssh` by first doing `git remote -v` and doing `git remote set-url origin https://github.com/keranod/.dotfiles`
- remember one way or another `git add .` on new install in `~/.dotfiles` and `git push` to github (add pub rsa to github `cat ~/.dotfiles/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub` or using vscode ext)
- reneable `Secure Boot`
- `SSH` allowed by default after installing `home-manager` to `TufNix`
- Errors:
  - In `BIOS` disable `Secure Boot` otherwise cannot write to `EFI` variables
  - `Failed to write LoaderSystemToken efi variable input/output error` -> Set `boot.loader.efi.canTouchEfiVariables = false;`

Commit message:

trying install with full encryption of new device

README.md, after:

# Contents

- Modulrized falke config
- Main Channel stable
- Extra unstable channel
- Specific version of `bind` and `samba`
- Semi automatic installation on `Legacy` and `EFI`
- Useful commands
- Home-manager
- Working `Godot` and `VSCode` with `C#`
- Working properly external Ultrawide screen and laptop screen at the same time `TufNix` on `Nvidia` GPU
- Selfhosted web server using `ngnix` and `strapi`
- Useful aliases in bash

# Links

- [MyNixOS Options](https://mynixos.com)
- [NixOS Packages](https://search.nixos.org/packages)
- [NixOS historical packages](https://www.nixhub.io/)

# Commands

- `nix flake update` -> cd to .dotfiles and run from there, updates flake.lock file with wihtin directory containing it, updates just flake.lock not whole system
- `nix-shell -p <packagename>` -> enable package for this shell only
- `sudo nixos-rebuild test` -> test build
- `sudo nixos-rebuild switch` -> rebuild distro and switch to it
- `sudo nixos-rebuild switch --flake <path to flake>#<flakename>` -> rebuil and switch to build using flake file and flakename
- `echo "<password>" | sudo tee <filename>` -> save password in plain text for pgadmin
- `sudo chmod 600 <filename>` -> make password only readable for root
- `nix-shell -p picutils && lspci` -> get pcis of devices
- `ls -ltrha /run/current-system/sw/bin | grep "<execname>"` -> find name of the package to use in module
- `ssh-keygen -R <ip or hostname>` -> remove remembered server of ip or hostname
- `df -h` -> check disk free space
- `top` or `htop` -> get system load
- `du -sh /nix/store` -> check how much space is used by nix store
- `sudo nix-collect-garbage -d` -> remove unused packages, run after removing generations for nix and home-manager
- `sudo nix-env --list-generations --profile /nix/var/nix/profiles/system` -> show all system generations
- `sudo nix-env --delete-generations <gen_number> --profile /nix/var/nix/profiles/system` -> delete specific generation
- `journalctl -u strapi.service --since today` -> get lastest logs of strapi.service since today
- `ps aux | grep sshd` -> get all ssh sessions, first number after user is PID
- `nix flake metadata` -> get matadata about inputs, need to run in directory with flake
- `home-manager switch --flake ~/.dotfiles` -> username and machine pulled from current machine and user who is running, no need to specify as long as flake is using "username@hostname"
- Temporary proxy for current shell/session
- `home-manager generations` -> get home-manager generations
- `home-manager expire-generations "-1 day"` -> remove all generations older than
- `tail <path> -f` -> see in real time file chaingn, useful for looking at logs

```nix
# Need both for shell and daemon to pickup proxy
export http_proxy="http://your.proxy:3128"
export https_proxy="$http_proxy"
export all_proxy="$http_proxy"
export no_proxy="localhost,127.0.0.1"
sudo systemctl set-environment http_proxy="http://proxy:3128" https_proxy="http://proxy:3128"
sudo systemctl restart nix-daemon
```

# sops-nix

- Run below on your machine or any other machine and copy string from output
  `nix run nixpkgs#ssh-to-age -- < ~/.dotfiles/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub`

```yaml
# .sops.yaml
# Placed at ~/.dotfiles/

keys:
  # Your personal key for managing secrets
  - &personal_key age1... # <-- Paste your personal key here
  # The host's key, which allows the server to decrypt secrets
  - &server_host age1... # <-- Paste the server host key here

creation_rules:
  # This rule applies to any file named `secrets.yaml`
  # inside the `hosts/server` directory.
  - path_regex: hosts/server/secrets\.yaml$
    key_groups:
      - age:
          - *personal_key
          - *server_host
```

- `Floccus need hashed password` - generate hashed password eg. `htpasswd -n -B floccus_user` and copy it
- cd to `~/.dotfiles` and run for eg. `nix run nixpkgs#sops -- hosts/NetworkBox/secrets.yaml`. Make sure that the host you are running it on has `.sops.yaml`

# shorten this one

- to manage secrets later also need to be in `~/.dotfiles` and run `nix-shell -p sops ssh-to-age --run 'SOPS_AGE_KEY=$(ssh-to-age -private-key -i ~/.dotfiles/.ssh/id_ed25519 | grep '\''AGE-SECRET-KEY'\'') sops hosts/NetworkBox/secrets.yaml'`
- remember to commit after modyfing secrets

```yaml
# secrets.yaml (in your editor)
nginx_webdav_users: |
  floccus_user:your-hashed-password-here # <-- Paste the output from `htpasswd` here
```

## !!! Remember to commit `secrets.yaml` to the repo otherwise use of it would fail

# One line installer:

- For `Legacy` in `configuration.nix`

```nix
  # Disable EFI bootloader and use GRUB for Legacy BIOS
  boot.loader.grub.enable = true;
  boot.loader.grub.device = "/dev/sda"; # or the appropriate disk, replace /dev/sda with your disk name

  # Set boot partition label for GRUB to use
  boot.loader.grub.useOSProber = true;
```

- For `EFI` in `configuration.nix`

```nix
  # Default settings for EFI
  boot.loader.systemd-boot.enable = true;
  boot.loader.efi.canTouchEfiVariables = true;
  fileSystems."/boot" = {
    fsType = "vfat";
  };
```

- When rebuilding rename/remove `hardware-configuration.nix` and `id_ed25519.pub`
- In `flake.nix` make sure to add machine in `nixosConfigurations` and user on the machine in `homeConfigurations`
- when creating `configuration.nix` and setting up networking just simply check the name of the interface/s before running this install using `ifconfig`
- `PROXY` - add proxy settings in `configuration.nix` and `home.nix` otherwise no internet access after install and browser will not get internet and some other apps
- disk check using `lsblk` and hostname needs to match name in hosts folder and confifuration.nix needs to be present in that folder
- CASE SENSITIVE COMMAND
- `curl -sSL https://github.com/keranod/.dotfiles/raw/main/semiAutoInstall.sh <optional -x proxy_url:port> | sudo bash -s /dev/<disk name> <hostname> <username> <email> <optional proxy:port>`
- after install run on each user that has home-manager specific config on that user profile `home-manager switch --flake ~/.dotfiles`
- `PROXY` - after install and home manager done, change git origin for `~/.dotfiles` to use `https` instead `ssh` by first doing `git remote -v` and doing `git remote set-url origin https://github.com/keranod/.dotfiles`
- remember one way or another `git add .` on new install in `~/.dotfiles` and `git push` to github (add pub rsa to github `cat ~/.dotfiles/.ssh/id_ed25519.pub` or using vscode ext)
- reneable `Secure Boot`
- `SSH` allowed by default after installing `home-manager` to `TufNix`
- Errors:
  - In `BIOS` disable `Secure Boot` otherwise cannot write to `EFI` variables
  - `Failed to write LoaderSystemToken efi variable input/output error` -> Set `boot.loader.efi.canTouchEfiVariables = false;`
